# CS340

# How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable? Especially consider your work on the CRUD Python module from Project One, which you used to connect the dashboard widgets to the database in Project Two. What were the advantages of working in this way? How else could you use this CRUD Python module in the future?

Writing code with a focus on making it as modular as possible enhances a codeworks readability, maintainability, and reusability. Instead of hard coding functions for specific situations it is much more feasable to write seperate reuasable functions. The attached animalShelter.py file is an excellent example of this approach. The CRUD methods (Creation, Read, Update, Delete) are all their own methods that can be used anywhere the class AnimalShelter class is implemented. This makes the code easier to read since the class's definition only exists in one spot, it is easier to test because if this function works else where but not at the area of immiediate concern then the programmer knows the issue is not with the function itself, and finally it's just much quicker and easier to implement instead of constantly writing identicle lines of code. 

# How do you approach a problem as a computer scientist? Consider how you approached the database or dashboard requirements that Grazioso Salvare requested. How did your approach to this project differ from previous assignments in other courses? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to create databases to meet other client requests?

Instead of getting one large assignment that I needed to complete in a single attempt, the Grazioso Salvare assignment was given to us in incremental steps. This made the project far less intimidating and easier to handle. We started with simply creating the database for the user by uploading the csv file and preforming the functions we would need later in the actual Mongo Shell, before writing out python code. The next step was to create those functions in python. That is represented in the animalShelter.py file. These functions were tested and implemented. Then we went about creating the dashboard file. First making the chart, then implementing the map, and finally creating the chart. These incremental steps helped organize the programming process and kept each new implementation consistent. 

# What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter? How would your work on this type of project help a company, like Grazioso Salvare, to do their work better?

A computer scientist is someone who specializes in the study of computer science and technology. In the case of the Grazioso Salvare, it was to design a system to streamline their database systems. Allowing them to be able to edit or search their records more efficiently. The dashboard also made it easier for them to assist rescue personal by helping them quickly find animals suitable for training for future operations. 
